backend/prompts.md, before:

# 1
Backend Prompt (Express + TypeScript API)

Create a basic Express.js backend with TypeScript for a flight tracker application. The API should have the following initial structure and functionality:  

1. Project setup  
   - TypeScript configured with tsconfig.json.  
   - Nodemon + ts-node for development.  
   - Scripts: dev, build, start.  
   - Folder structure:  
     src/
       app.ts          # Express app setup
       server.ts       # Entry point
       routes/         # API routes
       controllers/    # Controller functions
       services/       # Mock data services
       types/          # Shared TypeScript types

2. Endpoints (no real DB yet, store in-memory array of flights):  
   - GET /flights → return all tracked flights.  
   - POST /flights → add a flight (accepts { flightNumber: string }).  
   - DELETE /flights/:id → remove a flight by ID.  
   - PUT /flights/refresh → updates status of all flights by calling mock services.  

3. Flight object structure  
   interface Flight {
     id: string;
     flightNumber: string;
     status: 'AWAITING' | 'DEPARTED' | 'ARRIVED';
     actualDepartureTime: string | null;
     actualArrivalTime: string | null;
   }

4. Mock providers  
   - FlightAwareService and FlightStatsService each export a function that takes a flight number and returns a Promise resolving to:  
     { actualDepartureTime: string | null, actualArrivalTime: string | null }
     or { error: string }.  
   - For now, return hardcoded or randomly generated mock data.  

5. Middleware  
   - Use cors for cross-origin requests from the React frontend (http://localhost:3000).  
   - Use express.json() for JSON body parsing.  

6. Code style  
   - Use ES module imports.  
   - Keep controllers thin, business logic in services.  
   - All TypeScript types defined in types/flight.ts.  

No authentication, no DB, no logging for now. Just a clean, minimal structure I can extend later.


# 2

You are about to update the existing Express.js + TypeScript backend to add request validation using Zod.

Context:
- The backend already has a flights service (see reference code below) with functions: getAllFlights, createFlight, deleteFlight, and refreshAllFlights.
- We want to add Zod-based validation for incoming data before calling these service functions.
- The backend is already running and routes exist.

Requirements:
1. Install zod as a dependency.
2. Create a folder src/schemas/ for Zod schemas.
3. Define the necessary schemas. Examples:
   - flight.create.schema.ts:
     {
       flightNumber: string (non-empty, max 10 chars)
     }
   - flight.delete.schema.ts:
     {
       id: string (UUID format)
     }

4. Create a reusable validateRequest(schema, property) middleware in src/middleware/validateRequest.ts:
   - `schema`: Zod schema to validate.
   - `property`: "body" | "query" | "params" (default: "body").
   - Validate req[property] against the schema.
   - If invalid, return 400 with the error details.
   - If valid, attach parsed data to req.validatedData.
5. Apply validation in routes. Example:
   - POST /flights → validate body using flight.create.schema.
   - DELETE /flights/:id → validate params using flight.delete.schema.
6. The service layer (flights service) should not handle validation — only validated data should reach it.
7. Keep TypeScript types so controllers know they are receiving validated input.
8. Do not break existing logic in getAllFlights, createFlight, deleteFlight, or refreshAllFlights.
9. Keep code clean, modular, and well-commented.

Reference flights service code:
@flightService.ts

Commit message:

Backend: Add Auth + Postman collection

backend/prompts.md, after:

# 1
Backend Prompt (Express + TypeScript API)

Create a basic Express.js backend with TypeScript for a flight tracker application. The API should have the following initial structure and functionality:  

1. Project setup  
   - TypeScript configured with tsconfig.json.  
   - Nodemon + ts-node for development.  
   - Scripts: dev, build, start.  
   - Folder structure:  
     src/
       app.ts          # Express app setup
       server.ts       # Entry point
       routes/         # API routes
       controllers/    # Controller functions
       services/       # Mock data services
       types/          # Shared TypeScript types

2. Endpoints (no real DB yet, store in-memory array of flights):  
   - GET /flights → return all tracked flights.  
   - POST /flights → add a flight (accepts { flightNumber: string }).  
   - DELETE /flights/:id → remove a flight by ID.  
   - PUT /flights/refresh → updates status of all flights by calling mock services.  

3. Flight object structure  
   interface Flight {
     id: string;
     flightNumber: string;
     status: 'AWAITING' | 'DEPARTED' | 'ARRIVED';
     actualDepartureTime: string | null;
     actualArrivalTime: string | null;
   }

4. Mock providers  
   - FlightAwareService and FlightStatsService each export a function that takes a flight number and returns a Promise resolving to:  
     { actualDepartureTime: string | null, actualArrivalTime: string | null }
     or { error: string }.  
   - For now, return hardcoded or randomly generated mock data.  

5. Middleware  
   - Use cors for cross-origin requests from the React frontend (http://localhost:8080).  
   - Use express.json() for JSON body parsing.  

6. Code style  
   - Use ES module imports.  
   - Keep controllers thin, business logic in services.  
   - All TypeScript types defined in types/flight.ts.  

No authentication, no DB, no logging for now. Just a clean, minimal structure I can extend later.


# 2

You are about to update the existing Express.js + TypeScript backend to add request validation using Zod.

Context:
- The backend already has a flights service (see reference code below) with functions: getAllFlights, createFlight, deleteFlight, and refreshAllFlights.
- We want to add Zod-based validation for incoming data before calling these service functions.
- The backend is already running and routes exist.

Requirements:
1. Install zod as a dependency.
2. Create a folder src/schemas/ for Zod schemas.
3. Define the necessary schemas. Examples:
   - flight.create.schema.ts:
     {
       flightNumber: string (non-empty, max 10 chars)
     }
   - flight.delete.schema.ts:
     {
       id: string (UUID format)
     }

4. Create a reusable validateRequest(schema, property) middleware in src/middleware/validateRequest.ts:
   - `schema`: Zod schema to validate.
   - `property`: "body" | "query" | "params" (default: "body").
   - Validate req[property] against the schema.
   - If invalid, return 400 with the error details.
   - If valid, attach parsed data to req.validatedData.
5. Apply validation in routes. Example:
   - POST /flights → validate body using flight.create.schema.
   - DELETE /flights/:id → validate params using flight.delete.schema.
6. The service layer (flights service) should not handle validation — only validated data should reach it.
7. Keep TypeScript types so controllers know they are receiving validated input.
8. Do not break existing logic in getAllFlights, createFlight, deleteFlight, or refreshAllFlights.
9. Keep code clean, modular, and well-commented.

Reference flights service code:
@flightService.ts 

# 3
Add authentication to the existing Express + TypeScript backend.

Requirements:
1. Use express, cookie-parser, jsonwebtoken, and express-async-handler.
2. Auth endpoints:
   - POST /auth/login → Accepts username and password. Validate against a single in-memory user: username = "admin", password = "admin".
     - On success: create a short-lived access token (JWT, expires in 15 min) and a long-lived refresh token (JWT, expires in 7 days).
     - Store both tokens in HTTP-only cookies (`accessToken` and `refreshToken`).
   - POST /auth/logout → Clear both cookies.
   - GET /auth/me → Returns the authenticated user’s info (mocked).
   - POST /auth/refresh → Validates refresh token from cookie, generates a new access token, and sets it in the cookie.
3. Middleware:
   - `authMiddleware` → Validates access token from `accessToken` cookie. If invalid/expired, reject with 401.
   - Apply middleware to protect all flight endpoints (`/flights` and related).
4. Token details:
   - Use a hardcoded secret for simplicity.
   - Use cookie options: httpOnly: true, secure: false (for local dev).
5. No database → The only valid user is { username: "admin", password: "admin" } stored in code.
6. TypeScript types for User and AuthResponse.
7. Clean modular structure:
   - `/services/authService.ts` → Handles token creation/validation.
   - `/middleware/authMiddleware.ts` → Handles access token checking.
   - `/routes/authRoutes.ts` → Handles auth endpoints.
   - `/types/auth.ts` → Holds related interfaces.
